Welcome back to this lecture on parts of speech basics so I've already seen a little bit of parts of
speech in previous lectures.
But let's go and take a deeper dive into POS or parts of speech and what that really means and how we
can use space to actually grab parts of speech tags.
It's important to understand that most words themselves are actually rare in occurrence inside the context
of an entire document and it's common for words that look completely different to mean almost the same
thing and the same words in a different order can actually then and that meaning something completely
different.
So really there's a lot of nuance to the way that words are being used and that is why we need to also
look at the part of speech that word is being used in not just the word itself.
So when you're doing things like splitting text into useful word like units like tokenization that itself
can be difficult in many languages.
And while it's possible to solve some problems starting from only the raw characters or those raw tokens
it's usually better to use linguistic knowledge to add a useful information to know if you mean a noun
versus a verb versus an adjective that part of speech information is really crucial to taking your natural
language processing to the next level.
So that's exactly what space is designed to do.
You put in the raw text and you get back this document object that comes with a variety of annotations.
In this lecture we're going to be taking a closer look at the actual speech tax that spacey gives us
and it gives us two types.
It gives us a course part of speech tags.
Those are your basic parts of speech things like nouns verbs and adjectives but it also gives you fine
grained tags more nuanced information like whether something's a plural noun or a past tense for or
a superlative adjective and as a quick note.
Keep in mind English is an incredibly complex language with many rules and even more exceptions to the
rules.
Teaching English and the various grammatical rules it's outside the scope of this course you can check
out the resource references to learn more about the various parts of speech tags and what they mean
in English especially if English isn't your first language.
Keep in mind I really wouldn't expect people to be a super in tune with the very nuanced details of
grammar such as like a superlative adjective you may need to look that one up but you should be familiar
with things like a noun versus a verb versus an adjective to really get the most out of this part of
the course.
OK let's go ahead and explore part of speech tags in more detail.
Spacey I want to jump over to Jupiter notebook.
All right if you take a look at the parts of speech tacking folder the very first note book we're going
over is called POS basics.
And if you open up that notebook and scroll through it I would highly encourage you to check out this
notebook as if you this lecture because we've provided full tables that discuss the Course great speech
tags.
Those are the basic ones that every token has a POS tag assigned to it.
So we have the code adjective position adverb etc. in description and then some examples in this table
for you at checkout.
But there's also fine grained parts of speech tags.
So tokens are then subsequently after giving a speech tag given a fine green tag and then we have a
description there as well as some morphology information about that particular tag.
So these tables are really useful to reference.
So let's go ahead and start going through this notebook.
We're going to start by saying import Spacey and then we're going to load up the English language library
by saying entropy is equal to speccy load and we'll call it an underscore core web underscore S.M. so
that loads up the English language library for us Spacey and let's create a document.
We're going to passen a unicode string and we'll just say the quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog's
back.
All right.
Now we already know that if I want to print out the entire document text I just need to say print document
text and that prints out that string text.
And you should recall that you can obtain particular tokens by index position.
So if I want to just grab a particular token like jumped I just need to call that tokens in the Exposition
at index 4 and I get back jumped and then I can call various parts of this token.
So for example I can say something like grab the token text which is what I just saw here or I can grab
the speech tag such as verb or if I want to grab the fine green tag I can say t a g underscore and that
gives me that fine grained tags.
So if we come back up here to this table again remember we have the fine grained part of speech tat.
So I could end up looking for the fine grained tag and start looking up what it actually means.
So in this case jumped has a tag of VB.
And let's check out again what it's course tag was by saying Doc 4 and then POS underscore.
And it was a verb.
So it's a verb with a verb.
So we come back down here to the fine grained speech.
We can scroll down until we find verb and then we're looking for VB.
And it says it's a past tense verb so spacey is smart enough to know that just means it was in the past
tense.
The fox historically jump it jumped in the past over the lazy duck's back.
So we have both the speech this broader or Corser part a speech tag.
And then the fine detailed tack underscore and if you don't provide the underscore it's just going to
give you the numerical ID for that particular tag.
So sometimes it's more useful to have the numerical ID specifically for cases of looking up information.
Now what's nice is you can make yourself a little for loop by saying for token and document and then
you can print out a little table of all this information using string literals.
So we can say something like.
Print out the token text and then print out the token part of speech.
Then print out the token tag and then print out an explanation.
So if you want an explanation you can just call from Spacey explain.
Remember we've seen this before.
And then we can explain that actual tag tag underscore.
And if you run this your formatting may be a little off.
So it's all put together here.
Let's go ahead and give it a little bit of spacing.
By adding this colon tend to a lot of these guys will say call and turn on this one.
CONAN And on that one.
Clinton here and now let's run this and we get an nicer looking table.
So here we can see that took a text the speech the fine grained part of speech tag and then space explanation
for that particular part of speech specifically the token tag.
So this explanation goes with this fine grained tag be can pass in any token speech or a token text
and see a space you can explain it for you.
So we just saw we have the coarse green part of speech tags as well as the fine grained part of speech.
Now in the English language as we mention that same string of characters can have different meanings.
So let's create a documents that says we're going to make it a unicode string here that says I read
books on an LP
and we're actually going to say that the word we're examining is the word read.
So I'm going to grab that read tokin.
So if I check out word text that's that string read.
So just looking at the token Right now let's go ahead and check out the explanation for it.
I'm going to copy and paste this line right here.
And this is printing out that token information.
Let's go ahead and just redefine token as the word we're looking at and run this.
And in this context I can see.
I read books on an LP read is a verb which makes sense.
The person is reading the book.
But now let's create another document.
It's going to look really similar.
There's going to be slightly different.
We're going to say I read a book on an LP and there is a difference here.
This person reads books on an LP versus I read a book on an LP.
So we're going to run that again.
And now we're going to grab that cell information.
Paste it in here and let's go ahead and read the fine the word again.
So same thing I'm grabbing read except now the context I've read is different and the context is so
my new as far as the difference here.
What I'm saying.
I read books on an LP.
The other one saying I read a book on an LP and when you run this you'll notice that Spacey is smart
enough to understand that when you say I read a book on an LP you're referring to something in the past
tense versus this first one I read books on an LP is actually in the present.
This person currently reads books on natural language processing and the second one.
This person in the past had read a book on natural language processing.
So this is kind of amazing the fact that spacey can take all of this context based off the surrounding
words.
It's really quite incredible what Spacey has done here next.
Let's show you how you can actually count parts of speech tags.
So the document object has a count by a method that accepts a specific token attribute as its argument
and then returns a frequency count of the given attribute as a dictionary object.
So let's show you this.
I'm going to.
Again let's actually use the same string as before where we said the lazy dog.
So let's just copy this cell right here.
And I'm going to put that in.
So read the fine or document as the quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog's back and let me show
you how to get parts of speech counts.
I can grab that doc and then say call count underscore by and we'll say Spacey thought Archie us are
82 years excuse me for attributes and then dot P O S and what this is going to do is it's going to return
a dictionary so speech counts.
And then you may be wondering when you get back to dictionary what it's actually representing.
Well we asked for a count by so we can tell that the values appeared to be some sort of count but these
numbers aren't very useful by themselves.
These numbers are actually the parts of speech code.
Recall that when we came back up here if we actually didn't include an underscore we wouldn't get the
name of the speech we'd get back.
It's numerical identifier.
Now we can always look up numerical identifiers simply by calling the documents vocab and then passing
in whatever number we're interested in.
So let's say I want to know what 83 stands for.
I'll just pass an 83 and then ask for the text of that and I'll return back that it's an adjective again
recall that if we just grab any token off of a document.
So for example let's go ahead and just to make sure we run this let's grab Brown So here's document
to.
It's token brown.
I can ask for the parts of speech underscore and it returns back a..
Or if I just say POS it returns back its actual numerical code.
That's what the speech counts.
Dictionary is doing it's returning back the number and then how many times it showed up.
So here we can tell that additives there's three adjectives inside of this document.
The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog's back.
Now if you want to actually create a frequency list of of speech tags from the entire document you can
do that by simply making a for loop that looks something like this.
We can say for key value in that we can call sordid POS counts items which is a essentially a list of
tuples we can print out.
Well let's use a little extra formatting here.
We'll print out the key and then do a little space.
Well say Doc vocab at that particular key.
Print out the text and then add in a little bit of formatting here.
The string literal formatting.
And then we can passen the the actual value for it.
So let's make sure we then commit a typo here run this.
And there we go.
So it's telling us that for numerical code 83 which is an adjective we have three adjectives.
We have three nouns one punctuation and so on.
And keep in mind you can do this not just for the course of speech tags but for the fine grained tags
as well.
Recall again from our table that right now we're just looking at this part of speech this more course
tad.
But there's also these fine grained tags and we could do the same thing for it so we can come back here
and essentially copy and paste this.
But then we're going to do is instead of saying POS counts we're going to say tag counts and let's create
that tag counts object will say tag counts as equal to the documents and we'll say count by an also
a Speccy €80 for attributes and instead of saying POS we'll say tag and then if you run that now you
get to see the tags.
So again notice here we have the numerical value the fine grained part speech and then how many times
it showed up.
Now you're probably wondering why are these numbers so much larger than the numbers for the basic tags
like adjective and noun.
Well the reason for that is because in speccy certain text values are hard coded into the document vocab.
So that's the DRC that vocab and they take up the first several hundred ID numbers so the most common
ones are the ones that are closer up in the list.
So things like nouns and punctuations those are really commonly.
So that's why they're kind of smaller numbers are further up in that list closer to that first item
in the list the ones that don't get used that often they get pushed way further down.
I remember Doc vocab also has essentially all the English words available to it.
Remember the length of that vocab if we check it out it's actually this really big vocabulary of fifty
seven thousand eight hundred sixty three.
So for purposes of efficiency the most common ones are placed closer to the front of the list.
That way when you search for them it's more efficient.
And the ones that use less those get put down with kind of larger hashes and that really has to do more
with the way that space works internally through its own internal operations.
The thing is you're going to see as a user on your end.
So as a user on our end work in a space the size of this number it's kind of irrelevant to us we just
care that there is a number identifier for each particular text code of either a speech tag or a particular
fine green tag and we can do the exact same thing for syntactic dependencies.
So again we can copy and paste this code here and we can say DGP counts for syntactic dependencies.
Look up the epi.
So basically changing tags everywhere to the AP run that and you can see the syntactic dependency tags
again.
Kind of less common ones having larger numbers here and so on.
OK so that's all there is for our discussion right now.
Of course POS tags versus fine grained POS tags.
The main thing I understand from this lecture is that you can always call the tags off any token by
saying POS underscore and tag underscore if you forget the underscore it's just going to show you that
raw number and you should also keep in mind they can also call spaces that explain to explain its token
tags or its token part of speech.
And we also have this table that kind of lines them up all nicely for us then as a quick reminder if
you ever want to do a count of how many parts of speech you have you can say take your document call
count by and then call Spacey the attributes whatever attribute you want it counts.
Coming up next we're going to review how to visualize parts of speech.
We'll see if they're.